Chain of Responsibility
Also known as: CoR, Chain of Command
Reference: https://refactoring.guru/design-patterns/chain-of-responsibility


Question: What is chain of responsiblity design pattern?
Answer: Chain of Responsibility is a behavioral design pattern that lets you pass requests along a chain of handlers. 
Upon receiving a request, each handler decides either to process the request or to pass it to the next handler in the chain.

Problem
Imagine that you’re working on an online ordering system. You want to restrict access to the system so only authenticated users can create orders. Also, users who have administrative permissions must have full access to all orders.
After a bit of planning, you realized that these checks must be performed sequentially. The application can attempt to authenticate a user to the system whenever it receives a request that contains the user’s credentials. However, 
if those credentials aren’t correct and authentication fails, there’s no reason to proceed with any other checks.

Solution
Like many other behavioral design patterns, the Chain of Responsibility relies on transforming particular behaviors into stand-alone objects called handlers. In our case, each check should be extracted to its own class with a single method that performs the check. The request, along with its data, is passed to this method as an argument.
The pattern suggests that you link these handlers into a chain. Each linked handler has a field for storing a reference to the next handler in the chain. In addition to processing a request, handlers pass the request further along the chain. The request travels along the chain until all handlers have had a chance to process it.
Here’s the best part: a handler can decide not to pass the request further down the chain and effectively stop any further processing.
In our example with ordering systems, a handler performs the processing and then decides whether to pass the request further down the chain. Assuming the request contains the right data, all the handlers can execute their primary behavior, whether it’s authentication checks or caching.


