Question: What is POP?
Answer: Procedure-Oriented Programming (POP) is a programming method that focuses on the functions or procedures needed for 
computation rather than the data itself. In simple terms, it is a step-by-step approach to decomposing a task into a set of 
variables and routines using a set of instructions.

Advantages and Disadvantages of POP 
It has the ability to grasp the program very easily.
Follows the top-down approach that makes the flow very simple.
Allows to write the program without creating objects or classes.
High risk of security as data is exposed to the entire software.
Difficult to correlate with real-world objects.

What Is a Procedural Programming Language? (Plus Tips)

Procedural programming is one of the two main paradigms of computer programming. When pursuing a career as a professional developer, it can be beneficial to learn multiple languages and styles of programming. This can make you a more well-rounded developer and may make you more appealing as an employee.
In this article, we discuss what a procedural programming language is, its key features, its advantages and disadvantages, how it differs from object-oriented programming and tips for getting started with procedural programming.
Subscribe to a job alert for Programmer jobs to get the latest search results via email
Email address

Subscribe
By subscribing to a job alert, you agree to our Terms. You can change your consent settings at any time by unsubscribing or as detailed in our terms.
What is a procedural programming language?
A procedural programming language is one that uses sets of functions and commands to complete actions. Many programming languages use the procedural programming paradigm, including BASIC, C and Pascal.
Learning to program in a procedural programming language is often a foundational learning experience for aspiring developers, with many professional programmers starting their careers by learning a procedural programming language.
Related: 50 Types of Programming Languages and What They Do
Features of procedural programming languages
Here are some of the key features of a procedural programming language:
Predefined functions
A predefined function is a function available in a procedural programming language from a library of available functions. These functions allow a programmer to complete common tasks without creating the required code themselves. This can help a developer save time during production.
Related: How To Become a Backend Developer
Local variables
A local variable is a programming variable that has a local scope of use. This means the variable only functions in the function in which the developer defines it. Local variables only work in this capacity, so they can cause code to fail, leaving a task unfinished if a professional or user attempts to use the variable in a method outside of its scope.
Related: 10 Types of Variables in Research and Statistics
Global variables
Global variables increase functionality when local variables are insufficient. Developers can use global variables in nearly all functions. When defined globally, a variable makes itself available to all methods and functions in the code, allowing the developer to access key data throughout the program's many procedures.
Related: Navigating Computer Programmer Degrees and Careers
Parameter passing
Parameters are the data values that transfer from each function within a code sequence. When using parameter passing, developers place input parameters into a module or device and receive output parameters in return. Parameters allow a programmer to assign passed data to variables, equations and commands within a function to complete computing actions on the data.
Related: Learn About Being a Computer Programmer
Modularity
Modularity is a structure in which a developer divides the functionality of its code into a series of smaller blocks. The programmer can then call these blocks, often called methods or functions in procedural programming languages, in their code to access them.
This makes important functions repeatable to create a more efficient setup code, compared to one that requires the programmer to reuse the same code at multiple points when including a task that they need more than once.
Related: Learn About Being a Software Developer
Top-down approach
Procedural programming relies on a top-down approach to design and creation. Under this approach, a developer first defines the primary goal of the program, then assesses the components required to complete it.
They may choose to further subdivide some components of the larger goal into smaller modules. From there, the developer can begin creating their modules to build the code required to run their program.
Related: What Is a Top-Down Strategy? (Definition and Benefits)
Advantages of procedural programming languages
Understanding the benefits of procedural programming languages can help you determine if it's the right paradigm for your next project:
Versatility: Procedural programming is a versatile paradigm that allows developers to create coding projects that accomplish significantly varied goals. With procedural programming languages designed for many different types of development projects, including software and web development, there's likely an effective procedural programming language you can use to accomplish your goals.
Simplicity: Procedural programming is a relatively simple approach to computer programming. This is why many developers start working with procedural programming languages, as they provide a foundation for coding that the developer can apply as they learn other languages, such as an object-oriented language.
Accessibility: Many popular programming languages use procedural programming, so there are many resources available to an aspiring developer hoping to learn them. This includes both paid courses and free online resources and communities you can access when you encounter challenges, which can help expedite your development.
Related: The 7 Best Programming Languages To Learn in 2022
Disadvantages of procedural programming languages
Although procedural programming languages can be beneficial, it's important to understand the potential disadvantages:
Complexity: The simplicity of procedural programming languages can create a challenge when you're attempting to make complex programs. Often, choosing a language with an object-oriented approach may be easier for more in-depth projects.
Troubleshooting: The use of global data in procedural programming languages can make it challenging to identify the source of errors in your code. This can cause a complex debugging process, adding time to your development schedule.
Strict data types: Data in procedural programming languages is immutable. This means you can't change its structure or functionality after creation, which can be limiting, compared to the nearby option in other languages.
Related: Computer Programmer Skills: Definition and Examples
Procedural programming vs. object-oriented programming
Choosing between a procedural programming language and an object-oriented programming language is a key decision at the start of a project. It's beneficial to understand the differences between the two to find the option that's best for your project. To choose procedural programming or object-oriented programming, you may consider these differences:
Functions and objects: The foundational elements of the two paradigms are a primary differentiator. Procedural programming languages use functions to store code and complete actions, while object-oriented languages create objects that can have defined attributes and attached code to provide functionality.
Data functionality: Object-oriented languages offer new forms of functionality for data, including inheritance and data hiding. This can allow you to transfer characteristics from one object to a child object and improve security in code.
Top-down versus bottom-up: In contrast to the top-down approach of functional programming languages, object-oriented programming uses a bottom-up approach. In this style, developers create basic versions of their code, accomplishing single tasks in the larger project, then build upon these smaller segments to create a single unified project.
Related: What Is Object-Oriented Programming? 4 Basic Concepts of OOP
Are you looking for a job now?

Yes

No
Procedural programming language tips
If you're considering a career as a programmer or software developer, keep these tips in mind when learning a procedural programming language:
Consider your development goals. Assess your aspirations as a developer and choose a procedural programming language that aligns with your long-term goals. For example, if you're interested in a web development career, you may benefit from learning a web-focused procedural programming language.
Use online resources. Online tools are an excellent way to learn and improve your development skills. Besides taking online courses for your primary education, you can also use online resources as a developmental aid to supplement a formal education in computer science or development.
Set your own prompts. This can be an effective way to master your development skills with a procedural programming language. By creating your own projects, you can set program goals that allow you to refine your current skills and develop new ones to help you improve as a developer.
